The subject of this thesis is the design of a system meant to measure the power generated during a barbell squat with an application to visualize the measurements in the form of graphs.
The first chapter purpose of the work and the assumptions that had to be fulfilled during the design of the device and the application are presented. In the introduction there is also a plan of work, which briefly describes the next stages of the thesis.
In the next chapter commercial examples of power measurement device are given, along with a description of a correctly performed exercise, i.e. a squat with a barbell, for which the calculations and the device are designed. Next, examples of power measurement solutions with an encoder available on the market are presented.
The main part of this thesis is the implementation of the project, which is described in the third chapter. The description consists of the basic principle of operation of the device as well as the set of requirements and assumptions for the physical model of the design. Then the main components of the project are listed. The main part of the device is the rotary encoder, whose working principle is described in subsection 3.4.1. The different types of encoders are presented there, as well as the exact construction of the optical rotary encoder that was chosen for the project.
The next section describes in detail the encoder model used in the project. The next section describes in detail the encoder model used in the project, while the next point justifies the choice of the microcontroller on the Arduino Uno platform, and presents a photo describing the board. In the following subsections the construction of the device and the way the circuit works are described. Ready-to-use commercial components are listed and the whole process of manufacturing other components for the device model is presented. At the end , the correct scheme of connecting the encoder to the Arduino Uno board is shown.
The fourth part of the work is the calculations used in converting the readings from the encoder to the power generated by the user.
The fifth section describes the software scheme of the device. The code implemented into the Arduino microcontroller and the operating scheme of the computer application that allows easy use of the device by the user are presented.
The next chapter shows step by step how to use the designed circuit and application correctly to get the right results without noise and interference.
The seventh chapter presents calibration process along with the results obtained using a commercial solution and Julia Król's engineer thesis. The difference in the subsequent results is discussed.
The paper is concluded with the evaluation of the implementation of both the device and the application, as well as possible ideas for further development of the device.
